# ALS Implicit Collaborative Filtering

Previously we looked at grouping the various tasks into topics using a number of topic modelling algorithms, including LDA, non-negative matrix factorization and Neural Topic Modelling on Sagemaker. What this does is the following: we analyse all the text from allthe tasks in Sharktower and assign each task to a particular topic. This is an unsupervised learning approach and the number of different topics are arbitrarily set by us. We produced something that vaguely made sense: with Wordcloud and frequency of word appearance we can see by eye some vocabulary that is indicative of a topic, although a formal analysis is not performed. In the context of task recommendations however, we've only completed half of the problem. When a new task arrives, we are able to return a list of topic probabilities - i.e. the probability that the task will belong to a given topic, but we have not incorporated the user information into this, so we cannot determine which topic would be most useful for the user. This is the second part that we need to do. We also encounter the problem of what to do when there is no prior user information - this might mean that we need some meta information about the user. However, once the whole model is built, we will be able to return a list of tasks for a user with a corresponding probability for each task.

A second approach is to use collaborative filtering. This is essentially the same as the product recommender engine, which works as follows. A sparse matrix of customer/product is created. The entry of (customer, product) is greater than zero if a user has purchased or looked at an item. This is different from the *explicit* data used in the Netflix dataset, where each user indicates their preference for a particular item by giving it a rating. In implicit data modelling 
